Add explainer and server requirements for Referrer-Provided Prefetch Proxies (#428)
jeremyroman/alternate-loading-modes: referrer_provided_prefetch_proxies.md

- [Considered alternatives](#considered-alternatives)
  - [Status quo: browser-provided proxies only](#status-quo-browser-provided-proxies-only)
  - [Alternatives for specifying a referrer-provided prefetch proxy](#alternatives-for-specifying-a-referrer-provided-prefetch-proxy)
  - [Alternatives for authenticating to a referrer-provided prefetch proxy](#alternatives-for-authenticating-to-a-referrer-provided-prefetch-proxy)
  - [OHTTP-based approach](#ohttp-based-approach)
- [Security and Privacy Considerations](#security-and-privacy-considerations)
- [Stakeholder Feedback / Opposition](#stakeholder-feedback--opposition)
- [References & acknowledgements](#references--acknowledgements)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Introduction

Web developers use **speculation rules** to instruct the browser to perform navigation actions like prefetching or prerendering before navigation starts, speeding up subsequent navigations. For cross-origin prefetches, the user’s IP address must be anonymized to prevent the origin from learning that a UA speculatively navigated to a page before the user expressed intent to navigate.

> IP anonymization [is understood to mean that the user agent should hide or mask the external IP address of the client](https://github.com/WICG/nav-speculation/blob/main/anonymous-client-ip.md). IP anonymization may be requested by a referring page to avoid leaking client PII when performing a cross-origin prefetch. This requirement is expressed as a speculation rule requirement: "anonymous-client-ip-when-cross-origin" (**ACIWCO**). Speculation rules can include arrays of speculation rule requirements and ACIWCO is the only one yet defined. When set in a rule, ACIWCO requires a **cross-origin prefetch IP anonymization policy** to be set for the prefetch candidate corresponding to the rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IP anonymization [is understood to mean that the user agent should hide or mask the external IP address of the client](https://github.com/WICG/nav-speculation/blob/main/anonymous-client-ip.md). IP anonymization may be requested by a referring page to avoid leaking client PII when performing a cross-origin prefetch. This requirement is expressed as a speculation rule requirement: `"anonymous-client-ip-when-cross-origin"` (**ACIWCO**). Speculation rules can include arrays of speculation rule requirements and ACIWCO is the only one yet defined. When set in a rule, ACIWCO requires a **cross-origin prefetch IP anonymization policy** to be set for the prefetch candidate corresponding to the rule.
```

Author: Done.

> Today, the Prefetch spec asks browsers to implement a cross-origin prefetch IP anonymization policy. Previous work has described [a browser-provided privacy-preserving prefetch proxy](https://github.com/buettner/private-prefetch-proxy). This isn’t ideal for a few reasons: costs are a significant factor for vendors; privacy concerns limit the use of browser-provided prefetch proxies; and referrers don’t share the cost of supporting their speculation rules.

Reviewer: Link to spec. And let's move cost to be the secondary consideration and add a third reason.

```suggestion
Today, [the spec](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/speculative-loading.html#speculative-loading:~:text=If%20rule%27s%20requirements%20contains%20%22anonymous%2Dclient%2Dip%2Dwhen%2Dcross%2Dorigin%22%2C%20then%20set%20anonymizationPolicy%20to%20a%20cross%2Dorigin%20prefetch%20IP%20anonymization%20policy%20whose%20origin%20is%20document%27s%20origin.) asks browsers to implement a cross-origin prefetch IP anonymization policy.

Previous work has described [a browser-provided privacy-preserving prefetch proxy](https://github.com/buettner/private-prefetch-proxy). This isn’t ideal for a few reasons: privacy concerns limit the use of browser-provided prefetch proxies; costs are also a significant factor for vendors—referrers don’t share the cost of supporting their speculation rules.
```

Author: Done.

> This explainer describes another model, a referrer-provided prefetch proxy, in order to get public feedback on its feasibility for standardization. In the **referrer-provided prefetch proxy** architecture, the website initiating the prefetch (the referrer) operates its own privacy-preserving proxy server and specifies it in the page’s Speculation Rules script. This shifts the operational cost to the party that directly benefits from faster navigation and aligns the proxy trust model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This explainer describes another model, a referrer-provided prefetch proxy, in order to get public feedback on its feasibility for standardization. In the **referrer-provided prefetch proxy** architecture, the website initiating the prefetch (the referrer) operates its own privacy-preserving proxy server and specifies it in the page’s speculation rules script. This aligns the proxy trust model, prevents introducing a third-party service, while also shifting the operational cost to the party that directly benefits from faster navigation.
```

Author: Done.

## Goals

* Enable any referring site to offer privacy-preserving cross-origin prefetch to its users without dependence on browser-provided proxy infrastructure.  
* Give origins control over prefetch traffic using existing mechanisms: .well-known/traffic-advice configuration, Sec-Purpose headers.  
* Specify how referrer-provided proxies can be privacy-preserving.  
* Specify how cross-origin/site prefetches can avoid leaking additional information about clients.

## Non-goals

* This proposal is scoped to cross-origin/site prefetch only. Same-origin/site prefetch and prerendering are out of scope.  

> * This proposal does not define how user agents or sites should implement a privacy-preserving prefetch architecture, only the privacy and security goals of such architectures.  

Reviewer: I'm confused as below it seems you are defining this?

https://github.com/rrliu/nav-speculation/blob/4bbb8390c3390de592ed6445ca11a8d2d5fdd52f/referrer_provided_prefetch_proxies.md#creating-an-ip-anonymized-connection

Author: Removed this line. My meaning is that we don't want to mandate how proxy operators should implement their proxy outside of defining the browser-proxy protocol.

## User research

Site owners have shown significant performance gains from using Speculation Rules for same-site and cross-origin navigations. For example:
* [Google Search reduced LCP for clicks from Search by \~60 ms](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/search-speculation-rules)
* [Shopify reduced loading metrics by 130-180 ms](https://performance.shopify.com/blogs/blog/speculation-rules-at-shopify)
* [Etsy saw a 20-24% improvement in FCP and LCP](https://www.etsy.com/codeascraft/search-prefetching-performance)

These findings suggest that enabling cross-origin prefetch in a more scalable and accessible way could yield similar benefits for the broader web ecosystem.

## Use cases

A site owner wants to speed up cross-origin/site navigations on their pages. They want to get the same performance improvement on cross-origin navigation as they do on same-site navigation.

Their current implementation options are limited:
* Use Speculation Rules API or another means of speculatively loading resources without a privacy-preserving proxy. **This exposes client IP addresses to 3P origins.**  

> * Use Speculation Rules API with the ACIWCO requirement. The satisfaction of this requirement is left up to the UA implementation, which might not support ACIWCO. If the UA doesn’t support ACIWCO, it [must not execute any rules with that requirement](https://wicg.github.io/nav-speculation/prefetch.html#ref-for-prefetch-record-anonymization-policy%E2%91%A0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use Speculation Rules API with the ACIWCO requirement. The satisfaction of this requirement is left up to the UA implementation, which might not support ACIWCO. If the UA doesn’t support ACIWCO, it [must not execute any rules with that requirement](https://wicg.github.io/nav-speculation/prefetch.html#ref-for-prefetch-record-anonymization-policy%E2%91%A0). Additionally, since this introduces a third-party service run by the browser-vendor, the UA may require additional opt-ins ([Chrome, the only browser currently running such a proxy [requires users to enable the "Extended preloading" mode in Chrome's [preload settings](https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/1385029?&co=GENIE.Platform%3DAndroid)](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/private-prefetch-proxy#referrers:~:text=to%20allow%20other%20sites%20to%20preload%20navigations%20through%20Google%20servers%2C%20users%20need%20to%20select%20the%20%22Extended%20preloading%22%20mode%20in%20Chrome%27s%20preload%20settings.)).
```

Author: Done.

The site owner cannot control how the ACIWCO requirement is satisfied for their speculation rule. This proposal is to give them control by letting them bring their own proxy.

Sites may want to implement their own prefetch proxy if:
* Browser-provided implementations don't exist. Referrer-provided prefetch proxies can support private cross-origin prefetch in every browser that implements the feature.
* Sites may not want to send prefetch traffic to another company’s proxy infrastructure.
* The browser-provided implementation requires a user opt-in for privacy reasons. Having the same party operate the referrer page and proxy prevents additional information leakage to the proxy operator, which may obviate the need for user opt-in.
* The site wants more direct control over prefetch usage, cost, or infrastructure.
* Sites may already have the infrastructure in place to operate a prefetch proxy.

## Proposed solution: referrer-provided prefetch proxies

> We propose the **referrer-provided prefetch proxy** architecture, where the referring website operates its own privacy-preserving proxy server and specifies it in the Speculation Rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We propose the **referrer-provided prefetch proxy** architecture, where the referring website operates its own privacy-preserving proxy server and specifies it in the speculation rules.
```

Author: Done.

### New speculation rule requirements

We propose adding two new speculation rule requirements at the rule level:

* “use-referrer-provided-prefetch-proxy”, which instructs the browser to use a specific privacy-preserving prefetch proxy  

> * “prefetch-proxy-authorization-tokens”, which instructs the browser to use authorization tokens provided in the rule when connecting to a specified privacy-preserving prefetch proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `"use-referrer-provided-prefetch-proxy"`, which instructs the browser to use a specific privacy-preserving prefetch proxy  
* `"prefetch-proxy-authorization-tokens"`, which instructs the browser to use authorization tokens provided in the rule when connecting to a specified privacy-preserving prefetch proxy.
```

Reviewer: Why is this needed? Isn't the presence of the two below keys sufficient to know the rules needs these?

Author: I'd like the semantics to be explicit: the rule cannot be executed without using the referrer-provided proxy (with tokens if given). Defining them as requirements is explicit and puts them on the same level as ACIWCO.

When one of the above requirements is set, its respective key must be set with an appropriate value in the speculation rule JSON object:

* “referrer\_provided\_prefetch\_proxy”: Valid URL string  

> * “proxy\_authorization\_tokens”: List of JavaScript strings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `"referrer\_provided\_prefetch\_proxy"`: Valid URL string  
* `"proxy\_authorization\_tokens"`: List of JavaScript strings
```

Author: Done.

These keys are parsed into corresponding items in the speculation rule struct:

* Referrer provided prefetch proxy URL, a URL  

> * Proxy authorization tokens, an ordered set of (ASCII strings?)

Reviewer: Why question mark at the end? Is this still TBD? If so let's sayh that:

```suggestion
* Proxy authorization tokens, an ordered set of ASCII strings (to be confirmed)
```

Author: Done.

Speculation rules with the new requirements are only well-defined when:

> * **All three requirements are set:** UA must use the referrer-provided prefetch proxy and authenticate with the provided authorization tokens. If this connection does not succeed, the UA may fall back to its own IP anonymization implementation.  

Reviewer: I think you should be clearer here what you mean by "three" and "requirements". Maybe code-formatting `requirement` is enough?

```suggestion
* **All three `requirements` are set:** UA must use the referrer-provided prefetch proxy and authenticate with the provided authorization tokens. If this connection does not succeed, the UA may fall back to its own IP anonymization implementation.  
```

Author: Done.

> * **Only the two new requirements are set:** UA must use the referrer-provided prefetch proxy and authenticate with the provided authorization tokens. If this connection does not succeed, the UA stops execution of this speculation rule.  

Reviewer: Be clearer:

```suggestion
* **Only the two new `requirements` are set, without `"anonymous-client-ip-when-cross-origin"`:** UA must use the referrer-provided prefetch proxy and authenticate with the provided authorization tokens. If this connection does not succeed, the UA stops execution of this speculation rule.  
```

This also feels weird, because we still are anonymising the client ip when cross origin. But if we want to support with and without fallback I can't think of a better way...

Author: Done. Yeah, this case is why I wanted to clarify things in the following paragraph.

* **Only ACIWCO is set:** No change from current spec – UA either provides IP anonymization for this prefetch, or it [must not execute the speculation rule](https://github.com/WICG/nav-speculation/blob/main/anonymous-client-ip.md).  
* **No requirements are set:** UA will not use a proxy to prefetch this speculation rule candidate.

> After this change, the meaning of the existing **ACIWCO** requirement will change. The requirement is now associated with using the UA’s IP-anonymization implementation. If the two new requirements are set, **ACIWCO** will be used as a fallback, not as the first-choice proxy, if the connection to the referrer-provided proxy does not succeed.

Reviewer: This isn't clearer.

```suggestion
After this change, the meaning of the existing **ACIWCO** `requirement` will change when the two additional new `requirement`s are set. At the minute, that us a directive to always use the UA’s IP-anonymization implementation, but with this change it will **ACIWCO** will be used as a fallback, not as the first-choice proxy, and only used if the connection to the referrer-provided proxy does not succeed.
```

Author: Done.

Example:

```json
<script type="speculationrules">
{
  "prefetch": [
    {
      "urls": ["bar.com"],
      "requires": [
        "anonymous-client-ip-when-cross-origin",
        "use-referrer-provided-prefetch-proxy",
        "prefetch-proxy-authorization-tokens"
      ],
      "referrer_provided_prefetch_proxy": "https://prefetch.bar.com",
      "proxy_authorization_tokens": ["EXAMPLE_TOKEN"]
    }
  ]
}
</script>
```

### Parsing model

A UA should parse the new keys by:

1. Let *referrerProvidedPrefetchProxyURL* be an empty URL.  
2. If input\[“referrer\_provided\_prefetch\_proxy”\] exists:  
   1. If input\[“referrer\_provided\_prefetch\_proxy”\] is not a valid URL string:  
      1. The user agent may report a warning to the console indicating that the referrer-provided URL was not understood.  
      2. Return null.  
   2. Set *referrerProvidedPrefetchProxyURL* to input\[“referrer\_provided\_prefetch\_proxy”\].  
3. Let *proxyAuthorizationTokens* be an empty set.  

> 4. If input\[“proxy\_authorization\_tokens”\] exists, append input\[“proxy\_authorization\_tokens”\] to *proxyAuthorizationTokens*.

Reviewer: Remove smart quotes.

Also do you need all those escapes?

Author: Removed. Automated MD conversion from a Google Doc put the escapes in, but I believe underscores are used for italics, so I'll keep them in.

* **Require the proxy URL to be same-site to the referrer document**  
* Require browsers to use an isolated network context that does not reveal previous browser state  
* Require browsers to use the following headers for connections to the proxy and tunneled connections to the origin: Sec-Purpose: “prefetch; anonymous-client-ip”

We will also define proxy server requirements in a separate document formatted as an Internet Draft. This draft will:

* Specify the server side of the client-server protocol for prefetch IP anonymization  
* Define privacy and security requirements for servers  
* Formalize the ./well-known/traffic-advice file for site developers  
* Require prefetch servers to respect ./well-known/traffic-advice files

**See [Referrer-provided Prefetch Proxy Server Requirements](referrer_provided_prefetch_proxy_server_requirements.md) for more details.**

## Detailed design discussion

### Specifying a standard for privacy-preserving prefetch proxies

* **Should the referrer-provided proxy take precedence over the UA IP anonymization implementation when all three speculation rule requirements are listed in a rule?**  

>   Yes: the site is explicitly providing a resource for the UA. If cost is a concern, this prevents the UA from paying for IP anonymization itself.  

Reviewer: I don't see the need to mention cost here. I don't think that's the primary motiviation of implementing this spec!

```suggestion
  Yes: the site is explicitly providing a resource for the UA.
```

Author: Removed.

* We considered putting the proxy configuration in the speculation rule set level, but decided on the per-rule level for better flexibility and alignment with existing requirements.

### Alternatives for authenticating to a referrer-provided prefetch proxy

* We explored mechanisms other than auth tokens, but tokens provide a simple and effective way for sites to manage access and cost.

### OHTTP-based approach

We ruled out Oblivious HTTP as an alternative proxying protocol because OHTTP is message-oriented rather than connection-oriented and thus easier to MITM. Connection-oriented protocols establish a TLS connection from the UA to the origin and ensure that the proxy server can’t tamper with the HTTP request in the CONNECT tunnel.

## Security and Privacy Considerations

Prefetching web pages has the risk of exposing user information through speculative navigations. We consider the following parties in our privacy model: User agent, Referrer page, Private prefetch proxy, and Origin server.

The goal of this privacy model is to define principles that result in the least information being available to the proxy and the origin server.

> First, no information about the client is leaked to the proxy *if the referrer and proxy are run by the same party*. The proxy server learns only the same information about the client that has been revealed when the client navigated to the referrer page. Therefore **we propose that the referrer-provided proxy must be same-site to the referrer page.**

Reviewer: I'm not sure I agree with this wording.

Keeping something on the client, versus sending to a server (even if run by the same party) could still potentially leak the data. Otherwise, by that rational, the UA doesn't leak anything when using a UA-proxy.

```suggestion
First, **we propose that the referrer-provided proxy must be same-site to the referrer page.**. If the referrer and proxy, then the client has all the information so any data is not being shared further. Allowing non same-site proxies reintroduces many of the issues with the original UA implementation.
```

Author: Updated to "if the referrer and proxy are same-site, the proxy operator has all the information the referrer received. No additional information is sent to the proxy that the referrer didn't already receive."

> Second, **the user agent should not selectively send prefetch requests based on client PII** to avoid leaking information about PII. When the referrer and the proxy are run by the same party, that party can identify which prefetches are requested by the referring page and not sent to the proxy. This can leak PII that the user agent uses in the decision to prefetch, like the presence of a cookie for a particular site.

Reviewer: Finding it difficult to read. Suggesting this reword.

```suggestion
Second, **the user agent should not, to the best of it's abilities, send prefetch requests potentially containing client PII**, to avoid leaking information about PII. For example, proxying requests with cookies and including those cookies could negate the privacy-preserving intentions of using the proxy. However, this complicates matters as when the referrer and the proxy are run by the same party, that party can identify which prefetches are requested via the proxy or not, and so leak the fact that cookies exist for that origin. For this reason, the user-agent should still send requests, but without cookies, and then discard the responses.
```

I think this what Search does right? https://developer.chrome.com/blog/search-speculation-rules#privacy-preserving-prefetches:~:text=Note%3A%20Chrome%20will%20still%20send%20the%20anonymous%20prefetch%20request%20(without%20cookies)%20so%20the%20site%20(Google%20Search%20in%20this%20case)%20is%20unable%20to%20know%20the%20user%20has%20cookies%20for%20a%20third%2Dparty%20site%2C%20but%20the%20prefetch%20response%20will%20be%20discarded.

Author: I expanded on this a bit differently. The original point was that UAs shouldn't use client-side data to decide whether to prefetch, because that can indirectly leak data. I think your reword is saying that we shouldn't directly send that data in prefetch requests either, and I added that to this point.

**See the [Security and Privacy Questionnaire](referrer_provided_prefetch_proxy_security_privacy_questionnaire.md) for more information.**

## Stakeholder Feedback / Opposition

> * **Firefox:** No public position. Firefox engineers wrote the initial public proposal for this feature in March 2025: [https://github.com/WICG/nav-speculation/issues/368](https://github.com/WICG/nav-speculation/issues/368).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Firefox:** No public position. Firefox engineers originally suggested this feature in March 2025: [https://github.com/WICG/nav-speculation/issues/368](https://github.com/WICG/nav-speculation/issues/368).  
```

Author: Done.

* **Safari:** No public position.  
* **Edge:** No public position.

## References & acknowledgements

* [HTML Standard, “Speculative loading”](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/speculative-loading.html#speculative-loading)
* [Prefetch draft CG report](https://wicg.github.io/nav-speculation/prefetch.html)
* ["Private Prefetch Proxy Explained"](https://github.com/buettner/private-prefetch-proxy), [Michael Buettner](mailto:buettner@google.com)   

> * Thanks to [Dominic Farolino](mailto:domfarolino@google.com) for the spec mentorship\!

Reviewer: Maybe not give out his email :-)

```suggestion
* Thanks to [Dominic Farolino](https://github.com/domfarolino) for the spec mentorship\!
```

Author: Done. Sorry about that!

  - [Creating an IP anonymized connection](#creating-an-ip-anonymized-connection)
- [Detailed design discussion](#detailed-design-discussion)
  - [Specifying a standard for privacy-preserving prefetch proxies](#specifying-a-standard-for-privacy-preserving-prefetch-proxies)
  - [Token handling algorithm for CONNECT requests](#token-handling-algorithm-for-connect-requests)
- [Considered alternatives](#considered-alternatives)
  - [Status quo: browser-provided proxies only](#status-quo-browser-provided-proxies-only)
  - [Alternatives for specifying a referrer-provided prefetch proxy](#alternatives-for-specifying-a-referrer-provided-prefetch-proxy)
  - [Alternatives for authenticating to a referrer-provided prefetch proxy](#alternatives-for-authenticating-to-a-referrer-provided-prefetch-proxy)
  - [OHTTP-based approach](#ohttp-based-approach)
- [Security and Privacy Considerations](#security-and-privacy-considerations)
- [Stakeholder Feedback / Opposition](#stakeholder-feedback--opposition)
- [References & acknowledgements](#references--acknowledgements)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Introduction

> Web developers use **speculation rules** to instruct the browser to perform navigation actions like prefetching or prerendering before navigation starts, speeding up subsequent navigations. For cross-origin prefetches, the user’s IP address must be anonymized to prevent the origin from learning that a UA speculatively navigated to a page before the user expressed intent to navigate.

Reviewer 2: The IP address must be anonymized to prevent origin leakage. But it doesn't have to be anonymized for x-o prefetch to work in general, right? If there is a distinction here, let's clarify it.

Author: Updated to clarify that x-o prefetch has privacy concerns that create a need for client IP anonymization.

> IP anonymization [is understood to mean that the user agent should hide or mask the external IP address of the client](https://github.com/WICG/nav-speculation/blob/main/anonymous-client-ip.md). IP anonymization may be requested by a referring page to avoid leaking client PII when performing a cross-origin prefetch. This requirement is expressed as a speculation rule requirement: `"anonymous-client-ip-when-cross-origin"` (**ACIWCO**). Speculation rules can include arrays of speculation rule requirements and ACIWCO is the only one yet defined. When set in a rule, ACIWCO requires a **cross-origin prefetch IP anonymization policy** to be set for the prefetch candidate corresponding to the rule.

Reviewer 2: Let's link to https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#speculation-rule-requirement for the header value, so we at least get nearby it.

Author: Done.

Today, [the spec](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/speculative-loading.html#speculative-loading:~:text=If%20rule%27s%20requirements%20contains%20%22anonymous%2Dclient%2Dip%2Dwhen%2Dcross%2Dorigin%22%2C%20then%20set%20anonymizationPolicy%20to%20a%20cross%2Dorigin%20prefetch%20IP%20anonymization%20policy%20whose%20origin%20is%20document%27s%20origin.) asks browsers to implement a cross-origin prefetch IP anonymization policy. This isn’t ideal for a few reasons: privacy concerns limit the use of browser-provided prefetch proxies; costs are a significant factor for vendors and referrers don’t share the cost of supporting their speculation rules; and site owners might not trust the browser's proxy.

> This explainer describes another model, a referrer-provided prefetch proxy, in order to get public feedback on its feasibility for standardization. In the **referrer-provided prefetch proxy** architecture, the website initiating the prefetch (the referrer) operates its own privacy-preserving proxy server and specifies it in the page’s speculation rules script. This aligns the proxy trust model, avoids introducing a third-party service, and shifts the operational cost to the party that directly benefits from faster navigation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This explainer introduces a referrer-provided prefetch proxy. In the **referrer-provided prefetch proxy** architecture, the website initiating the prefetch (the referrer) operates its own privacy-preserving proxy server and specifies it in the page’s speculation rules script. This aligns the proxy trust model, avoids introducing a third-party service, and shifts the operational cost to the party that directly benefits from faster navigation.
```

Author: Done.

## Goals

> * Enable any referring site to offer privacy-preserving cross-origin prefetch to its users without dependence on browser-provided proxy infrastructure.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Enable any referring site to offer privacy-preserving cross-origin prefetch to its users without relying on browser-provided proxy infrastructure.  
```

Author: Done.

* Give origins control over prefetch traffic using existing mechanisms: .well-known/traffic-advice configuration, Sec-Purpose headers.  
* Specify how referrer-provided proxies can be privacy-preserving.  
* Specify how cross-origin/site prefetches can avoid leaking additional information about clients.

## Non-goals

> * This proposal is scoped to cross-origin/site prefetch only. Same-origin/site prefetch and prerendering are out of scope.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This proposal is scoped to cross-origin prefetch only. Same-origin prefetch and prerendering are out of scope.  
```

If it's scoped to the cross-origin case, then it applies to the cross-site case by construction. So since cross-origin is the tighter condition, let's limit discussion to it here and in all below instances. Does that make sense?

Author: That makes sense - updated to cross-origin.

* This proposal does not deprecate the ability of user agents to operate IP anonymizing services for cross-origin/site prefetching. That will remain an implementation option.

## User research

> Site owners have shown significant performance gains from using Speculation Rules for same-site and cross-origin navigations. For example:

Reviewer 2: What does "same-site and cross-origin navigations" refer to here? Does it refer to:
- both "same-site, cross-origin navigations AND cross-site cross-origin" navigations; or
- only one type of navigation: "same-site, cross-origin navigations"

Author: Changed to navigations in general.

* **No requirements are set:** UA will not use a proxy to prefetch this speculation rule candidate.

After this change, the meaning of the existing **ACIWCO** `requirement` will change when the two additional new `requirement`s are set. Presently, ACIWCO is a directive to always use the UA’s IP-anonymization implementation. With this change **ACIWCO** will be used as a fallback when the two new `requirement`s are set, not as the first-choice proxy, and only used if the connection to the referrer-provided proxy does not succeed.

Example:

```json
<script type="speculationrules">
{
  "prefetch": [
    {
      "urls": ["bar.com"],
      "requires": [
        "anonymous-client-ip-when-cross-origin",
        "use-referrer-provided-prefetch-proxy",
        "prefetch-proxy-authorization-tokens"
      ],
      "referrer_provided_prefetch_proxy": "https://prefetch.bar.com",
      "proxy_authorization_tokens": ["EXAMPLE_TOKEN"]
    }
  ]
}
</script>
```

### Parsing model

> A UA should parse the new keys by:

Reviewer 2: "should" might get us in trouble, if read through the lens of https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#conformance. Do you mean something like "will"?

Author: Yes, updated to "will".

1. Let *referrerProvidedPrefetchProxyURL* be an empty URL.  
2. If input\["referrer\_provided\_prefetch\_proxy"\] exists:  
   1. If input\["referrer\_provided\_prefetch\_proxy"\] is not a valid URL string:  
      1. The user agent may report a warning to the console indicating that the referrer-provided URL was not understood.  
      2. Return null.  
   2. Set *referrerProvidedPrefetchProxyURL* to input\["referrer\_provided\_prefetch\_proxy"\].  
3. Let *proxyAuthorizationTokens* be an empty set.  
4. If input\["proxy\_authorization\_tokens"\] exists, append input\["proxy\_authorization\_tokens"\] to *proxyAuthorizationTokens*.

### Processing model

> We will add the following items to the definition of a cross-origin prefetch IP anonymization policy struct:

Reviewer 2: Link to the struct.

Author: Done.

* Referrer-provided prefetch proxy, a URL  
* Proxy authorization tokens, an ordered set of (ASCII strings?)

A browser would process a speculation rule with the three requirements “anonymous-client-ip-when-cross-origin”, “cross-origin-prefetch-proxy”, and “prefetch-proxy-authorization-tokens” by:

1. If the origin is not cross-origin to the referrer:  
   1. The user agent should not use *referrerProvidedPrefetchProxyURL* as the prefetch proxy.  
2. The user agent must use *referrerProvidedPrefetchProxyURL* as the prefetch proxy.  
   1. Set parameters in the prefetch record struct.  
   2. Start a referrer-initiated navigational prefetch.

### Creating an IP anonymized connection

We will define an algorithm for browsers to create an IP anonymized connection. The algorithm will:

* Require browsers to start an encrypted HTTP CONNECT tunnel session with the proxy server  
* Specify headers for the CONNECT request, such as Host (of the origin) and Proxy-Authorization (for authorization tokens)  

> * **Require the proxy URL to be same-site to the referrer document**  

Reviewer 2: Is this requirement special or surprising in some way? (Why the asterisks?)

Author: Removed the asterisks.

* Require browsers to use an isolated network context that does not reveal previous browser state  
* Require browsers to use the following headers for connections to the proxy and tunneled connections to the origin: Sec-Purpose: “prefetch; anonymous-client-ip”

We will also define proxy server requirements in a separate document formatted as an Internet Draft. This draft will:

* Specify the server side of the client-server protocol for prefetch IP anonymization  
* Define privacy and security requirements for servers  
* Formalize the ./well-known/traffic-advice file for site developers  
* Require prefetch servers to respect ./well-known/traffic-advice files

**See [Referrer-provided Prefetch Proxy Server Requirements](referrer_provided_prefetch_proxy_server_requirements.md) for more details.**

## Detailed design discussion

### Specifying a standard for privacy-preserving prefetch proxies

> * **Should the referrer-provided proxy take precedence over the UA IP anonymization implementation when all three speculation rule requirements are listed in a rule?**  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Should the referrer-provided proxy take precedence over the UA IP anonymization implementation (ACIWCO) when all three speculation rule requirements are listed in a rule?**  
```

Author: Done.

Reviewer 2: This does not seem done.

Reviewer 2: Oops, I'm wrong my bad.

  Yes: the site is explicitly providing a resource for the UA.
* **What network protocol should UAs use to connect to a proxy?**  
  An encrypted version of HTTP CONNECT (HTTPS, H/2, H/3). Connection should be encrypted from the UA to the proxy and from the proxy to the origin server.  
* **Privacy standards for proxy implementations**  
  Additional privacy requirements are discussed in the attached document on proxy server requirements.

### Token handling algorithm for CONNECT requests

* **How do site developers control which tokens are used by a UA in a specific request?**  

>   Proposal: it shouldn’t matter exactly which token a UA uses, the site should provide as many tokens as there are prefetch candidates.  

Reviewer 2: Wait, so if there are 100 resources on the site, the site should provide 100 proxy tokens? I thought the token was just for one-off auth to the proxy site?

Author: Updated this with some other options for token handling. I agree that token-per-CONNECT-request seems impractical for complex rules.

The goal of this privacy model is to define principles that result in the least information being available to the proxy and the origin server.

First, **we propose that the referrer-provided proxy must be same-site to the referrer page.**. If the referrer and proxy are same-site, then the proxy operator has all the information that the referrer received. No additional user information is sent to the proxy that the referrer didn't already receive. Allowing non same-site proxies reintroduces many of the issues with the original UA implementation.

Second, **the user agent should not selectively send prefetch requests based on client PII, or include PII in prefetch requests** to avoid leaking information about PII. When the referrer and the proxy are run by the same party, that party can identify which prefetches are requested by the referring page and not sent to the proxy. This can indirectly leak PII that the user agent uses in the decision to prefetch, like the presence of a cookie for a particular site. Including PII in prefetch requests, like cookies or service workers, may directly leak user identity to origin servers.

> See the **Security and Privacy Questionnaire** section below for more information.

Reviewer 2: Maybe link to the section so clicking it performs a fragment navigation?

Author: Done.
